BACKEND_INTEGRATION.md, before:

# Backend Integration Guide

## 🚀 Frontend-Backend Integration Complete!

Your Angular frontend is now fully integrated with your NestJS backend API. Here's what has been implemented:

## 📋 Integration Summary

### ✅ **API Configuration**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/config/api.config.ts`
-    **Purpose**: Centralized API configuration with all endpoint definitions
-    **Features**:
     -    Base URL configuration (`http://localhost:3000`)
     -    Organized endpoint structure
     -    Helper function for auth headers

### ✅ **Authentication Service Integration**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/services/auth.service.ts`
-    **Endpoints Connected**:
     -    `POST /auth/register` - User registration
     -    `POST /auth/login` - User login
     -    `GET /users/me` - Get current user
-    **Features**:
     -    Automatic token management
     -    User state persistence
     -    Automatic user fetch on app initialization

### ✅ **Product Service Integration**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/services/product.service.ts`
-    **Endpoints Connected**:
     -    `GET /products` - Get all products (with pagination)
     -    `GET /products/recent` - Get recent products
     -    `GET /products/:id` - Get product by ID
     -    `POST /products` - Create product (admin only)
     -    `PUT /products/:id` - Update product (admin only)
     -    `DELETE /products/:id` - Delete product (admin only)
     -    `GET /categories` - Get all categories
-    **Features**:
     -    File upload support for product images
     -    Real-time data synchronization
     -    Category management

### ✅ **User Service Integration**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/services/user.service.ts`
-    **Endpoints Connected**:
     -    `GET /users` - Get all users (admin only)
     -    `GET /users/:id` - Get user by ID (admin only)
     -    `POST /users` - Create user (admin only)
     -    `PUT /users/:id` - Update user (admin only)
     -    `DELETE /users/:id` - Delete user (admin only)
-    **Features**:
     -    Admin-only operations
     -    User management interface

### ✅ **Order Service Integration**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/services/order.service.ts`
-    **Endpoints Connected**:
     -    `POST /orders` - Create new order
     -    `GET /orders` - Get user orders
     -    `GET /orders/all` - Get all orders (admin only)
-    **Features**:
     -    Order creation from cart
     -    Order history tracking
     -    Admin order management

### ✅ **Cart Service Enhancement**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/services/cart.service.ts`
-    **New Features**:
     -    Integration with OrderService
     -    `createOrderFromCart()` method
     -    Seamless order placement

## 🔧 **Backend API Endpoints**

### Authentication

```
POST /auth/register
POST /auth/login
```

### Products

```
GET    /products           # Get all products (paginated)
GET    /products/recent    # Get recent products
GET    /products/:id       # Get product by ID
POST   /products           # Create product (admin only)
PUT    /products/:id       # Update product (admin only)
DELETE /products/:id       # Delete product (admin only)
```

### Categories

```
GET /categories            # Get all categories
```

### Users

```
GET    /users              # Get all users (admin only)
GET    /users/me           # Get current user
GET    /users/:id          # Get user by ID (admin only)
POST   /users              # Create user (admin only)
PUT    /users/:id          # Update user (admin only)
DELETE /users/:id          # Delete user (admin only)
```

### Orders

```
POST /orders               # Create new order
GET  /orders               # Get user orders
GET  /orders/all           # Get all orders (admin only)
```

## 🚀 **How to Run the Full Application**

### 1. Start the Backend

```bash
cd backend
npm run start:dev
```

The backend will run on `http://localhost:3000`

### 2. Start the Frontend

```bash
cd frontend
ng serve
```

The frontend will run on `http://localhost:4200`

## 🔐 **Authentication Flow**

1. **Registration/Login**: Users can register or login through the frontend
2. **Token Storage**: JWT tokens are automatically stored in localStorage
3. **Automatic Headers**: All API requests include the Bearer token
4. **User State**: User information is maintained across page refreshes
5. **Logout**: Tokens are cleared on logout

## 🛡️ **Security Features**

-    **JWT Authentication**: All protected routes require valid tokens
-    **Role-based Access**: Admin routes are protected with role guards
-    **CORS Enabled**: Backend allows frontend requests
-    **Token Validation**: Invalid tokens are automatically cleared

## 📱 **Frontend Features Now Connected**

### ✅ **Home Page**

-    Displays recent products from backend
-    Real product data with images
-    Purchase flow integration

### ✅ **Admin Dashboard**

-    **Product Management**: Full CRUD operations with backend
-    **User Management**: Create, read, update, delete users
-    **Real-time Data**: All changes sync with backend immediately

### ✅ **User Dashboard**

-    **Order History**: Displays user's orders from backend
-    **Profile Management**: User data from backend

### ✅ **Shopping Cart & Checkout**

-    **Cart Management**: Local storage + backend integration
-    **Order Placement**: Creates real orders in backend
-    **Payment Flow**: Complete checkout process

### ✅ **Product Pages**

-    **Product Details**: Individual product pages with backend data
-    **Related Products**: Dynamic product suggestions
-    **Add to Cart**: Seamless cart integration

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

Your application is now **fully functional** with backend integration! You can:

1. **Test the Application**: Start both servers and test all features
2. **Add More Features**: The foundation is ready for additional functionality
3. **Deploy**: Both frontend and backend are ready for production deployment
4. **Customize**: Modify the API endpoints or add new features as needed

## 🐛 **Troubleshooting**

### Common Issues:

1. **CORS Errors**: Ensure backend CORS is properly configured
2. **Token Issues**: Check if tokens are being sent in headers
3. **API Errors**: Verify backend endpoints are running correctly
4. **File Upload**: Ensure backend file upload configuration is correct

### Debug Tips:

-    Check browser network tab for API calls
-    Verify backend logs for incoming requests
-    Ensure all environment variables are set correctly

---

🎉 **Congratulations!** Your full-stack e-commerce application is now complete and fully integrated!

Commit message:

Replace localhost refs with environment API URL; use API_CONFIG.BASE_URL; update tests and docs; prepare for deploy

BACKEND_INTEGRATION.md, after:

# Backend Integration Guide

## 🚀 Frontend-Backend Integration Complete!

Your Angular frontend is now fully integrated with your NestJS backend API. Here's what has been implemented:

## 📋 Integration Summary

### ✅ **API Configuration**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/config/api.config.ts`
-    **Purpose**: Centralized API configuration with all endpoint definitions
-    **Features**:
     -    Base URL configuration (`environment.apiUrl` — configure per deployment)
     -    Organized endpoint structure
     -    Helper function for auth headers

### ✅ **Authentication Service Integration**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/services/auth.service.ts`
-    **Endpoints Connected**:
     -    `POST /auth/register` - User registration
     -    `POST /auth/login` - User login
     -    `GET /users/me` - Get current user
-    **Features**:
     -    Automatic token management
     -    User state persistence
     -    Automatic user fetch on app initialization

### ✅ **Product Service Integration**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/services/product.service.ts`
-    **Endpoints Connected**:
     -    `GET /products` - Get all products (with pagination)
     -    `GET /products/recent` - Get recent products
     -    `GET /products/:id` - Get product by ID
     -    `POST /products` - Create product (admin only)
     -    `PUT /products/:id` - Update product (admin only)
     -    `DELETE /products/:id` - Delete product (admin only)
     -    `GET /categories` - Get all categories
-    **Features**:
     -    File upload support for product images
     -    Real-time data synchronization
     -    Category management

### ✅ **User Service Integration**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/services/user.service.ts`
-    **Endpoints Connected**:
     -    `GET /users` - Get all users (admin only)
     -    `GET /users/:id` - Get user by ID (admin only)
     -    `POST /users` - Create user (admin only)
     -    `PUT /users/:id` - Update user (admin only)
     -    `DELETE /users/:id` - Delete user (admin only)
-    **Features**:
     -    Admin-only operations
     -    User management interface

### ✅ **Order Service Integration**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/services/order.service.ts`
-    **Endpoints Connected**:
     -    `POST /orders` - Create new order
     -    `GET /orders` - Get user orders
     -    `GET /orders/all` - Get all orders (admin only)
-    **Features**:
     -    Order creation from cart
     -    Order history tracking
     -    Admin order management

### ✅ **Cart Service Enhancement**

-    **File**: `frontend/src/app/services/cart.service.ts`
-    **New Features**:
     -    Integration with OrderService
     -    `createOrderFromCart()` method
     -    Seamless order placement

## 🔧 **Backend API Endpoints**

### Authentication

```
POST /auth/register
POST /auth/login
```

### Products

```
GET    /products           # Get all products (paginated)
GET    /products/recent    # Get recent products
GET    /products/:id       # Get product by ID
POST   /products           # Create product (admin only)
PUT    /products/:id       # Update product (admin only)
DELETE /products/:id       # Delete product (admin only)
```

### Categories

```
GET /categories            # Get all categories
```

### Users

```
GET    /users              # Get all users (admin only)
GET    /users/me           # Get current user
GET    /users/:id          # Get user by ID (admin only)
POST   /users              # Create user (admin only)
PUT    /users/:id          # Update user (admin only)
DELETE /users/:id          # Delete user (admin only)
```

### Orders

```
POST /orders               # Create new order
GET  /orders               # Get user orders
GET  /orders/all           # Get all orders (admin only)
```

## 🚀 **How to Run the Full Application**

### 1. Start the Backend

```bash
cd backend
npm run start:dev
```

The backend will run at the URL configured in your deployment (set `DATABASE_URL` / `BACKEND_URL` / `environment.apiUrl`). Example: `https://online-boutique-tv00.onrender.com`

### 2. Start the Frontend

```bash
cd frontend
ng serve
```

The frontend will run on `http://localhost:4200`

## 🔐 **Authentication Flow**

1. **Registration/Login**: Users can register or login through the frontend
2. **Token Storage**: JWT tokens are automatically stored in localStorage
3. **Automatic Headers**: All API requests include the Bearer token
4. **User State**: User information is maintained across page refreshes
5. **Logout**: Tokens are cleared on logout

## 🛡️ **Security Features**

-    **JWT Authentication**: All protected routes require valid tokens
-    **Role-based Access**: Admin routes are protected with role guards
-    **CORS Enabled**: Backend allows frontend requests
-    **Token Validation**: Invalid tokens are automatically cleared

## 📱 **Frontend Features Now Connected**

### ✅ **Home Page**

-    Displays recent products from backend
-    Real product data with images
-    Purchase flow integration

### ✅ **Admin Dashboard**

-    **Product Management**: Full CRUD operations with backend
-    **User Management**: Create, read, update, delete users
-    **Real-time Data**: All changes sync with backend immediately

### ✅ **User Dashboard**

-    **Order History**: Displays user's orders from backend
-    **Profile Management**: User data from backend

### ✅ **Shopping Cart & Checkout**

-    **Cart Management**: Local storage + backend integration
-    **Order Placement**: Creates real orders in backend
-    **Payment Flow**: Complete checkout process

### ✅ **Product Pages**

-    **Product Details**: Individual product pages with backend data
-    **Related Products**: Dynamic product suggestions
-    **Add to Cart**: Seamless cart integration

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

Your application is now **fully functional** with backend integration! You can:

1. **Test the Application**: Start both servers and test all features
2. **Add More Features**: The foundation is ready for additional functionality
3. **Deploy**: Both frontend and backend are ready for production deployment
4. **Customize**: Modify the API endpoints or add new features as needed

## 🐛 **Troubleshooting**

### Common Issues:

1. **CORS Errors**: Ensure backend CORS is properly configured
2. **Token Issues**: Check if tokens are being sent in headers
3. **API Errors**: Verify backend endpoints are running correctly
4. **File Upload**: Ensure backend file upload configuration is correct

### Debug Tips:

-    Check browser network tab for API calls
-    Verify backend logs for incoming requests
-    Ensure all environment variables are set correctly

---

🎉 **Congratulations!** Your full-stack e-commerce application is now complete and fully integrated!
